.TH SCROTTY 1 SCROTTY
.SH NAME
scrotty \- Screenshot program for Linux's TTY.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scrotty
.RI [ OPTION ]...\ [ FILENAME_PATTERN ]
[\-\-
.IR CONVERT_OPTION ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scrotty
is a minimalist screenshoter for the
.BR Linux\ VT .
It takes a screenshot of your framebuffers (multiple are
supported.)
.B X
is not supported.
.PP
.B scrotty
is designed after
.BR scrot (1),
but includes a some improvements. Namely it does not support
delaying the screenshot, selecting image quality or creating
thumbnails, but it has support for adding arbitrary arguments
to
.BR convert (1),
which is used to save the image.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print usage information.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print program name and version.
.TP
.B \-\-copyright
Print copyright information.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
Save in PNM rather than in PNG.
.TP
.BR \-\-exec \ \fICMD\fP
Command to run for each saved image.
.SH "SPECIAL STRINGS"
Both the
.B \-\-exec
and
.I FILENAME_PATTERN
parameters can take format specifiers that are expanded by
.B scrotty
when encountered. There are two types of format specifier.
Characters preceded by a \(aq%\(aq are interpreted by
.BR strftime (3).
These options may be used to refer to the current date and
time. The second kind are internal to
.B scrotty
and are prefixed by \(aq$\(aq or \(aq\\\(aq. The following
specifiers are recognised:
.PP
$i      framebuffer index
.br
$f      image filename/pathname (ignored in FILENAME_PATTERN)
.br
$n      image filename          (ignored in FILENAME_PATTERN)
.br
$p      image width multiplied by image height
.br
$w      image width
.br
$h      image height
.br
$$      expands to a literal \(aq$\(aq
.br
\\n      expands to a new line
.br
\\\\      expands to a literal \(aq\\\(aq
.br
\\       expands to a literal \(aq \(aq (backslash, space)
.PP
A space that is not prefixed by a backslash in
.B \-\-exec
is interpreted as an argument delimiter. This is the case
even at the beginning and end of the string and if a space
was the previous character in the string.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
Support for TTY:s in other kernels should be added.
.SH RATIONALE
Taking screenshots was a pain before this. Screenshots
are useful if you want to remember something or send an
image of how something looks.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scrot (1),
.BR convert (1),
.BR strftime (3)
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(scrotty)\(aq
.SH AUTHORS
Principal author, Mattias Andrée.  See the COPYING file for the full
list of authors.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2014, 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to https://github.com/maandree/scrotty/issues or to
maandree@member.fsf.org

